build it. Number three, you're going to fire at
least three or four architects. They fired three.
It took them two and a half times longer to build it
than they thought. And it cost them twice as much.
It cost them $12 million. It's a magnificent
edifice. And I'm glad they did it and all that. But I
really see what follows. But you were out of the
loop at that point. I was out of sync. See, what
bothered me was using annual giving money to pay
utilities on a building they didn't need to. You
know, you pay janitorial service, you pay for a big
building like that, that land, it's not state
property. At least we hung up. Oh, I've got to tell
you a funny story. When we expanded the MSC in the
early 70s,
general of the Dean of Students, General
Hennigan, was chairman of the expansion. Well,
boy, no one knows this, except Tom Cherry and
Nestle and Diebel. Diebel, they know it. We'd been
occupying the West End. See, the way this started,
We, former students, raised the money for the down
payment on the MSA. I think it's about $250,000. We
bought, that was our annual giving project when it
started in 1942 that I read. That was give to the
dream, all we had when we were in school was the
YMCA. So now we're going to have the memorial
students there dedicated to the men who gave their
lives in World War II. So they raised about
$250,000. Of course, the building cost several
millions. But that paid for the architectural
study. It paid for the other necessary things. So
the former students got credit for the building.
But the building cost a hell of a lot more than we
raised. So we had an office in it. Our deal was, give
us an office in it. Wayne Stark's on one side of the
West End, and we're on the other side, which we
outgrew real fast.
So it was the next expected job. Hell, I was looking
all over the campus for sites and locations to
build. At one time, we were going to take the old
Gilchrist home, which John Colas is in now. We're
going to use that as a base and add on to the back of
it. And Jack Williams said, yeah, now ain't that
what I need, the former students in my backyard?
So I always said, you're right. So then I came up
with the idea from the architectural plan. Dee Dee
Matthews, the architect. I said, Dee Dee, why
can't we do this? I said, boy, he jumped on that.
Well, I got Cecil Stewart to do a study. And with
Cecil Stewart helping D.D. Matthews, they
designed it. But I couldn't get the authority from
the board to do it. And Rudder wouldn't push it
either. Rudder was suspicious of that. Hell, he
wanted office space himself. If you're going to
build that, he wanted it, see? All Britain saved
the day. All Britain went in there and told it.
Regents what was going to happen and what we ought
to do. And so we'd pay for it all. Well, Bob Walker
and Cop Forsyth, Bob Walker got Cop to give him a
million and a half dollars. That's what he paid
for. And so with
that, of course, the furnishings, we put most of
the money in the lobby and the offices we kept
pretty sparse. But we only had $120,000 to furnish
it with. That's not a lot. We had that beautiful
carpet and all that stuff. Oh, yeah, here's the
point. So O'Hanigan didn't say anything to me
about anything. And of course, I told the people,
now this is going to be a building of the MSC. So
it'll be set up for booking. You can book the
facility, our boardroom and our lobby for use for
faculty retirement, staff faculty retirement.
It'll be part of the MSC for booking, so-and-so.
And being as how we're in the building, we ought to
be on the Centrix. Our number ought to be an 845
number. Oh, yeah, that's fine. Well, about two
years later, I got marched on. And old Tom Cherry
and Lee Diebel came in there. He said, how'd you
pull it off? Well, right then's when I should have
had the Academy Award. or the Distinguished
Alumni Award for acting. I said, pull off what? I
knew damn well what. He
said, you don't have an electric meter. You're not
paying electric for this facility. And you're on
the centric system, and so on, and so and so. You're
getting janitorial service. I said, well,
gentlemen, wait a minute. I said, you know, Dean
Hannigan was in charge of this, and we agreed. They
said, yeah, you conned him, didn't you? I said, no,
sir. I said, this building, this facility is used
for the Memorial Student Center. And John
Richards
will be booking this facility for use for
continuing education or whatever else. This
lobby and these offices are available, except for
the private offices, are available for student
use and the use of the university. This is a
university facility. I said, we've got the three
levels here. We've got the offices up here. And
we've got the mail room in the basement. I said,
this has made a perfect setup for everybody
concerned. I said, it didn't interfere with any
function of the university. And it added to it. It
added another million some dollars to the
building, which will be here for whatever. We'll
probably move this office in time to come, but
it'll still be available for . They said, well
you've sold everybody else but us. I said, look, we
get billed by the university for our telephone
bill. We get billed and we pay our bills properly. I
said, I bet you have agencies that don't pay as
properly as we do. They said, that's right. And I
said, let's see, what else did I say? I said that the
association was in business to do so and so and so. I
went out and gave them the biggest bullshit story.
made them feel bad they'd ever called on me and
complained about this. But all of a sudden they
woke up, Diebel's the one that picks these little
auditors. He picked that up and said, look at these
guys. Here's a private corporation we got in the
building and they're not paying rent or nothing. I
said, well, you're lucky to have us here. Just
think what we do. I said, we're on the committees
and we serve everybody. We help out. We raised
money for students and student activities. Wayne
Stark, we've always been tied in close to Wayne and
his programs. We worked with the students. This is
an absolutely perfect setup. I said, you couldn't
have it any better. I said, what if we were off in
some thing in the corner of the campus? It wouldn't
be nearly as effective. Of course, I just... They
were ready to pull out a checkbook and give you
more. We've done you wrong. But I'll tell you, my
big surprise and shock at the fact that he was
questioning a thing like that. Well, it is. Let me
ask you, let's kind of close up, because I know I'm
taking an awful lot of your time. I appreciate it. I
may come back to you. But in the 10 years, 10, 12, 13
years now that have passed since you've been in an
official capacity with the former students, and
you've had a little more objective view maybe of
the university, what do you see as having happened
that has been particularly good or particularly
bad in these past 10 years? Of course, the next
question I'm going to ask is, where do you see where
we're going to go from here? I think the university
has just done a fantastic job. I think the efforts
to try to bring the physical plant here up to meet
the needs of 41,000 students has been tremendous.
They still have some time to go. They've got to
finish this construction across the track and get
business moved over there, readjust their use of
these buildings. That's right. That whole campus
is a post-1980 campus. That's right. Exactly. So I
said, the physical plan, I said, right now they're
using laboratories all hours of the day and night.
But I think the future is we're gearing a lot of it
for high tech. And that's where it's got to go. I
think two things. I think, one, liberal arts has
got to take a stronger position because of the
universal nature of our university. We now have to
gear our university for worldwide. They're
talking about this economy is a universal
economy. Our education has to be the same way,
which means we're going to have to be bigger and
stronger in modern language and in history. Our
people have to be a little better educated
intellectually,
along with the high tech. High tech and
engineering and science and other things has got
to meet the needs of just, what, seven years away.
We're entering into a new century. And business is
going to be different in all parts of the world.
Our technology programs of the past are job
related, doing jobs, a specific task in
electronics and mechanics and whatnot. I think
probably
education has got to gear itself more to the
intellectual. We've got to compete with leaders
from Japan and from Europe. Europe people seem to
be better educated than our people are. It depends
on the technical or engineering curricula,
whether you can. do all this, but I think we're
geared in that direction, and I think that we're
getting a different type of leader, too. We're
getting a psychologist as president of the
university. I think one thing I think that's just
fantastic is the way we conduct these
commitments. They're killers now for the
registrar's office. They're killers for the
president and the deans and people. But like we
have seven of them, imagine they did four of them.
We had one at 11, one at two, one at 7.30, then they
had one at Saturday morning. But the fact that they
give them a diploma that's completed, the former
students gives them a little miniature diploma
for their billfold, and the fact that the
president hands them—see, every other major
university in the world bails them the diploma. No
one tries to do this. I never thought we'd do it. I
said, that's one thing that the new registrar will
drop. Listen, he's gung-ho for it. Mobley's
gung-ho for it. And Mobley gets in there, those
little pre-commencement, and they're just
wondering. Gives everybody a nice book. I get to
give you a book called Neil Ford Architect. I love
that because I know a lot of people in it. Aggies,
Brooks Martin, and lots of other guys. So I love it.
But anyway, I'm just saying. So they give you that
personal touch. Yeah. We're a big 40,000 student.
We're going to get bigger. And, of course, I think
it's too bad. I just hate turning down a
well-qualified student. It just breaks my heart
to see, especially one of our former students, has
a grandchild or something like that. And I think
something should be done to offset that a little
bit. I just hate to say you've got 16,000 qualified
applicants, but we're only going to take six.
We're only going to take 2,000 transfer students.
And so many graduate students and so on. Of course,
the graduate students, I realize that's got to be
limited. You can only take, your faculty can only
handle so many in the advanced degrees. I realize
that. But the undergraduate degree, I think
that's got to continue to be strong. We can't ever
neglect that. The teaching of freshmen has got,
the nicest compliment I heard said was by my
scholar. His name is Daniel Kent from Austin. He
said, my buddies over there are in class with
hundreds of people. And over here, I'm in class
with tens of people. I've just got 20, 30 people in
my class. He said, this is far better teaching
university than the University of Texas at
Austin. From what he hears, his sister goes there
and his best friend goes there. He got a
presidential scholar to come here. And he's
thrilled to death with it. But he just thinks his
teachers are wonderful. He says, my faculty
members are just great. And one of my lady friends
in San Antonio's son is here. I'm going to tell you a
story about that. A year ago, sophomore year, he
was having a terrible time with accounting. This
is a guy that puts on magic shows. This is a guy that
entertains. He's an out people person. Yeah. And
he's taking accountants. Because his dad says,
oh, learn to be an accountant. Take business and
accountants. So he's over here. And every
Valentine's Day, his grandmother, who is a lovely
lady, but oh, she's rich as hell. And she sends me
some money to buy a Russell Stover box of
Valentine's. See, his mother, who was the same age
as my daughter when she died, who's this woman's
daughter. She's a granddaughter, see, this kid.
So the boy said, oh, they're having a terrible
time. The emperor's down and so on. I said to him, he
said, wait. He said, I don't know. He said, I think
I'll transfer. I said, wait a minute. Why don't you
go see your advisor and tell him you'd like to get
permission to talk to people in liberal arts? I
said, you ought to transfer to liberal arts. You
shouldn't be taking accounting. I said, you're
not going to be an accountant. I said, you need to
get into modern language, get into history, and
get into
literature, things that you really like. I said,
you're a good reader. I said, you do well on tests
and all that stuff. This year, this Valentine's
Day, I go pick him up, and he's got an apartment off
campus at Northgate. Those nice apartments are
just down Nagle Street. And I'm thinking, well,
boy, he's happy. I said, we're going to go. Oh,
let's go to so-and-so. I said, well, you're
smiling this year. He said, boy, that advice you
gave me, I switched to liberal arts. He said, I'm
making straight A's. I joined a fraternity. I
said, get in a fraternity. You didn't get in the
Corps. I said, get in a fraternity. Go around and
pledge these outfits. They want you. You got the
money. So got in the fraternity down there on Texas
Avenue or something like that. He loves his
buddies he's made in there, he's made friends,
he's made his friends, and he's just gung-ho, see?
A little bit of... I think I said, I think one nice
thing about the university now is there's more
opportunities for more divergent types, I guess.
And that's part of being a big university. And you
know what this university has that no one has? All
these... Oh, that's a mower. All of these student
organizations. Mm-hmm. I've never seen it like
that. That's right. Up in the MSC, there are
hundreds. That's a training ground. Yeah, for
leadership. That MSC council director, that's
fabulous. No one's got anything that big. And over
there in Carolyn A. Dare's office, man, you can get
anything there from climbing mountains in Italy
to skiing down mountains. I mean, these clubs,
there are hundreds and hundreds of clubs. I became
so aware of that. Of course, I used to raise money
and finance them, just like I did for the Calvary. I
did that outside of the budget. And like the soccer
team and the cricket team and the rugby team and all
those things. I was on that MSC board. What was it?
Advisory Council, I guess, for some years. That
was really interesting. I enjoyed that. I never
did them much good, but it was interesting. The
students here get a well-rounded education. They
really do. I'm impressed with them. And I hope my
granddaughters will. Of course, I'll sure take
them over there. They're good students and
they're going to be, and one of them says, Papo,
would you mind if I took education? I said, I'd be
thrilled. I'd be thrilled. I said, anything you
want to take, I said, except if you're going to take
music, you can't go to A&M. I said, A&M does not have
a music, it never will have one. We've got a
department now, but no degree in it. People can
take courses over there, real good. Of course,
they can learn to sing and play and do all that kind
of stuff, but they're not going to ever get a degree
in it. I don't think we need a college of music. And
we shouldn't ever have one. But it's good to offer
courses in it here. That's all right. They have
some good instructors and people. I don't know if
they have any professors or not. The university is
just a The only problem I see is they can't
accommodate these good students. They can't get
in. That just breaks my heart. But actually, we're
limited by facilities and by faculty. We have to
have enough good teachers, and I hope we never
lose, I hope the faculty never does, let's
research and that sort of thing, take over from the
teaching role. Yeah, that's going to be a problem.
It's already a problem. Already a problem, right?
What about the Corps? Do you think they're going to
continue to exert some kind of spiritual or
moral... I think the Corps is always going to be
here, maybe smaller, smaller. I think we'll have
1,000 to 1,500 people in it. I don't think it's ever
going to be the big influential
Corps that it should be because there's two
problems. One, the type of student that comes out
of the homes of Texas and America today are not
conducive to high states of discipline,
especially where they get hollered at. And as a
freshman, they're going to be hollered at. It's
what it is. It's Marine Corps training. It's just
making beds and shining your shoes. That's
hazing, see? I think the push-ups and all that sort
of stuff, that shouldn't harm anybody. But see,
kids don't like to do that. It's a thing that's
distractive to them. It's distractive to the
faculty. They have to listen to people bitch about
it. A little girl told an old Henry Wendler
columnist, but who's in charge down there? I said,
well, Henry in charge of what? Who's in charge of
hazing? I said, Henry, the people that are in
charge of hazing are the people that are doing it.
He said, Buck, you're pretty damn smart. He says,
you're right. He said, I wanted to find out if you
knew who the hell is in charge of hazing. He said,
I'll tell you what I did. I talked to Mobley up here,
and I said, Mobley, the girl on my scholarship has
got out of the Corps. And he said, they just hazed
her too much, and she couldn't accept that, so she
got out. He said, now, who's in charge of that? What
happens to that girl down there? Mobley says,
well, I don't know. She'll have to talk to John
Coldis. He says, that Coldis comes under student .
So he came down here, went over, talked to Coldis.
And Coldis says, well, that's in the Corps. You'll
have to talk to General Darling about that. So he
goes over and sees General Darling. And General
Darling says, wait a minute. We have a lady, a major
here, that'll take you down to the dormitory. So he
took this woman, Major Tober, to the dormitory.
They found the upperclassman of the class woman,
or man, I don't know who was doing it, but it was
Hazender, see? And he said,
Henry said, why did you tell this girl that she
couldn't keep her civilian clothes in here, that
she couldn't go to the bathroom after 10.30 at
night? If she had to, she had to pee in the sink and
that sort of thing. And the sophomore said,
because that's tradition, sir. He said, hell, if
it's tradition, the sophomores are going to keep
hazing the freshmen, see? The commandant can't
stop that. You can't have someone sleeping with
everybody in the court. So as long as you've got a
hazing system, which, see, it's a quasi-military
thing. That's really not military. It's like boot
camp, see? It's boot camp. It's like OCS. And when
you have that situation, whether it's uniforms,
whether it's shoes, whether it's beds to be made
and whether it's spoken words said in West Point,
Annapolis, Air Force Academy, you can't
eliminate it. It can't be eliminated. Now, the
former students got a big committee challenged by
the regents to come up with a study, and the Corps
has been studied to death here. What they need to do
is let the Corps study itself gather all these
seniors and juniors and so on, like I used to take
them all out of the country, and I determined right
then, not a damn thing I could do or say or the former
students are going to say. All I told them about was
what your goal has to be is to make the Corps so
attractive, like a fraternity or sorority, that
the kids want to be in it. And it could work. They
want to be in it. Now, if you can create that
atmosphere in the Corps, well, you'll have 3,000
kids in the Corps. That's about how many of those 12
dorms will hold, about 3,000, 1,500 on each side.
And I said, when you get that, Then you can call them
out and just take specific ones of the Corps. But
see, what I'll say is this. The quality is so high.
God, those kids, they're gung-ho, all-American
kids. Good-looking and proud, you know. But
there's not very many of them. They've only got
about 1,600 over there. It's going to be tight with
the funding and all that kind of stuff. It's going
to be a lot of power. Those damn dorms aren't worth a
damn. They never have been. I couldn't believe it.
You know, my class was the first ones in those
dorms. Freshman year, I lived in Milder Hall. Then
at summer of 38, opened in 39. Well, they started in
38. And when I saw those dorms, they're just like
prison barracks. And hell, they're conducive to
hazing. It's just terrible. They got them
air-conditioned, and they got carpets on the
floor so they're not as noisy. but but uh hell those
you know i said god you could slaughter 100 people
up here no no just put a guard at each end to watch the
buzz don't come in you know that that was my first
impression he and him was not here but when i was in
school at texas in the 50s 52 to 56 i remember one
year i drove back made a loop down through the
campus on this this was gravel road i believe
millican was right and i remember seeing the dorms
and that Like a prison. Look, it's just gruesome. I
couldn't believe it, yeah. I didn't know much
about A&M, although Louisiana people, you know,
A&M was well regarded. When you look at Hart Hall
and Walton Hall and Puryear and Law and Puryear and
Hart and Walton, they're built on a ramp system.
You come in and you've got three or four rooms. No,
you've got three rooms and a shower and a bath. Then
you go up, you've got three. So you have up this
ramp. Well, you can only kill about three rooms of
kids at a time that way, see. What I'm saying is it's
not as conducive to hazing as the long cell block
system is. I hated those doors because they're not
conducive to study. They're not conducive to
anything except put a bunch of prisoners in. Lock
the damn door and throw the key away. That's a good
analogy. That's interesting. Well, Buck, I
appreciate everything and all of that. keep in
touch, and in fact, as this thing develops, I'll
come back. Oh, well, I'm sorry we took so long. Oh,
no, I'm not sorry. It would take long. I don't want
to burn you out completely. I may come back. But if
you will, as this thing develops, I'll call on you
to kind of look at it. You've done this before. Tell
me where I've erred. Any, well...